
# What is TrailDB?

TrailDB is an efficient tool for storing and querying series of events,
in other words, things that happen over time. The series of events
could be generated by a user using a mobile application, or a trading
algorithm making trades in the market. Events likes this are *discrete*
and often *structured*, such as JSON objects, in contrast to continuous
metrics like CPU utilization.

TrailDB shines at compressing large amounts of discrete event data in a
small amount of space, which can be queried efficiently. This allows you
to handle massive amounts of data even on a single large server, or even
on your laptop.

TrailDB produces small immutable files which your application can access
using the TrailDB library. The TrailDB library is implemented in C that
makes it extremely performant. Multiple language bindings are provided,
including [Go], [Python], [D], [Haskell], and [R].


# Why TrailDB?

It is easy to store and query series of events using existing databases,
or even flat files. The key motivation for TrailDB is immutability:
Immutable data enables compression, scalability, and architectural
decisions, which would not be feasible with existing databases. This is
especially true for cloud environments with object stores like
Amazon S3 that are a perfect match for compressed, immutable files. Once
in S3, TrailDBs can be easily processed using an arbitrary number of
instances in parallel, without any centralized bottlenecks.

Developer productivity is another main motivation of TrailDB. Individual
files are easy to observe and manipulate using standard filesystem
tools. The library has only a handful of easily available dependencies,
making it easily deployable. [The API] is clean and minimal by design.

TrailDB is used as a highly performant building block in large
production systems, so maintainability, reliability and robustness are
of central importance. The test coverage is nearly 100%. TrailDB takes
backwards compatibility very seriously: You should be always able to
read older TrailDBs using the newest version of the library.

# Learn More

 - Watch a presentation [Introduction to TrailDB].
 - Browse [the slides of the presentation].
 - Take a look at the [technical overview].

